
This directory contains Fortran 77 subprograms described in
Appendix B. All subprograms use single precision (REAL*4 /
COMPLEX*8) arithmetic. Double and quadruple precision versions
of these subprograms can be found in f77/sub8 and f77/sub16
respectively. 

All these subprograms have been tested to some extent, but there
may be some bugs. Users are welcome to use these subprograms at
their own risk. Any bugs discovered in these routines may be
notified to

antia@tifr.res.in

It may be noted that the single precision arithmetic uses 24
bits to represent the fraction part of floating point number
giving a machine accuracy of about 6.0E-08. It can handle
normalised floating point numbers in the range of approximately
1.17E-38 to 3.40E+38. 

All constants in the subprograms have not been converted from
double precision version and as a result some part of
calculations may still be done in double precision. Although all
subprograms have been converted to single precision, it may not
be advisable to use them in single precision as it may be
difficult to get the required accuracy. For example, SUBROUTINE
REMES or GAUSWT are unlikely to succeed in single precision,
except for problems requiring very small number of coefficients.
On the other hand, in many problems, like interpolation, the
inherent errors in input table may be so large that use of
double precision may not improve the accuracy. Apart from 
accuracy the use of double precision arithmetic also extends 
the range of exponent. This extended range may be useful in 
extending the range of applicability of some functions like
the Gamma function or high order Bessel functions. In single 
precision arithmetic these routines may give overflow in many 
cases.

On most machines, the difference in execution speed between
single and double precision is not significant. Further, in many
cases slight reduction in execution speed may be more than
compensated by reduced number of iterations required when double
precision arithmetic is used. In such cases, it is very likely
that double precision version of program may execute faster than
the single precision version. 





During the revision, the names of the following two routines have changed

GAMLN   to      GAMMAL  To calculate logarithm of Gamma function
RAN     to      RAN1    To generate random numbers with uniform distribution

Further the arguments of the following routines have changed

BSPFIT  An additional argument to calculate the covariance matrix
LLSQ    An additional argument to calculate the covariance matrix
POLFIT  The 5th argument is now error in input data instead of weight (1/error**2) 
RANGAU  The seed is now real instead of integer

The random number generators RAN1 and RANGAU have been modified and hence
the output of programs may not match the earlier version.

The following new routines have been added

betai.f, betap.f, betcon1.f, betcon.f, betser.f, fbeta.f, gammap.f,
iranbin.f, iranpoi.f, linfitxy.f, pcor.f, shsort.f

Apart from 235 Fortran subprograms this directory contains the
following files:

ier.lst	 	Subject wise list of subprograms with possible values of 
		error parameter (IER)

ier.lst	 	Numerically sorted list of possible values of error parameter (IER)

readme	 	This file

readme,htm 	HTML version of readme file

sub.ier	 	Alphabetic list of subprograms with possible values of
		error parameter (IER)

sub.ind	 	Index of subprograms

sub.lst	 	Subject wise list of subprograms

sub.req	 	List of subprograms required by each subprograms

sub.sor	 	Alphabetic list of subprograms

sublst.htm	Subject wise list of subprograms with HTML links

sublsta.htm	Alphabetic list of subprograms with HTML links

The following 235 Fortran files are included in this directory

adams.f     bspfit2.f   divdif0.f   gaucb1.f    lagure.f    polevn1.f   setmat_c.f
adi.f       bspfit.f    divdif.f    gaucb2.f    lagurw.f    polevn2.f   setmat.f
adm.f       bspfitn.f   drvt.f      gaucby.f    lapinv.f    polevn.f    shsort.f
adpint.f    bspfitw2.f  elmhes.f    gauelm_c.f  lax.f       polfit1.f   simpl1.f
balanc.f    bspfitwn.f  epsiln.f    gauelm.f    lines.f     polfit2.f   simplx.f
balbak.f    bspint2.f   equids.f    gauher.f    linfitxy.f  polfit.f    simpx.f
balbak_l.f  bspint.f    erfc.f      gaujac.f    linl1.f     polfitn.f   simson.f
betai.f     bspintn.f   erf.f       gaulag.f    linmin.f    polort.f    smooth.f
betap.f     bsplin.f    euler.f     gauleg.f    linmnf.f    poly2.f     sor.f
betcon1.f   bspode.f    extp.f      gaulg2.f    linrn.f     polyc.f     sphbjn.f
betcon.f    bspqd2.f    fbeta.f     gaulog.f    llsq.f      polyl1.f    sphnd.f
betser.f    bspqd.f     fdm.f       gaus16.f    locate.f    polyr.f     splevl.f
bfgs.f      bspqdn.f    ferm05.f    gausq2.f    matinv.f    ran1.f      spline.f
bi0.f       by0.f       ferm15.f    gausq.f     mcarlo.f    ranf.f      splint.f
bi1.f       by1.f       ferm25.f    gausrc.f    minmax.f    rangau.f    strint.f
bin.f       byn.f       fermm05.f   gauss.f     mstep.f     ratnal.f    stroud.f
bisect.f    cassum_a.f  fft.f       gauswt.f    muler2.f    remes.f     strt4.f
bj0.f       cassum.f    fftn.f      gear.f      mulint.f    rk2.f       sturm.f
bj1.f       cauchy.f    fftr.f      gevp_c.f    muller.f    rk4.f       svdevl.f
bjn.f       chebap.f    filon.f     gevp.f      nearst.f    rkm_2.f     svd.f
bjy0.f      chebcf.f    fln.f       golden.f    newrac.f    rkm.f       tinvit.f
bjy1.f      chebex.f    flnm.f      herevp.f    newrap.f    rls.f       tql2.f
bk0.f       cholsk.f    fm.f        hermit.f    newton.f    rmk1.f      trbak.f
bk1.f       contur.f    forw.f      hqr.f       ngauss.f    rmkd1.f     tred2.f
bkn.f       crank.f     fredco.f    invit_cc.f  nllsq.f     rmkd.f      tridia.f
brackm.f    crout_c.f   fred.f      invit_c.f   nllsq_f.f   rmk.f       volt2.f
brent.f     crout.f     funk.f      invit_cl.f  nminf.f     rombrg.f    volt.f
brentm.f    crouth.f    gamma.f     invit.f     pade.f      round.f     ylm.f
broydn.f    davidm.f    gammal.f    invit_l.f   pcor.f      search.f    ylm_x.f
bspev2.f    davidn_b.f  gammap.f    iranbin.f   pleg.f      secan_2.f   zroot2.f
bspevl.f    davidn.f    gaublk_c.f  iranpoi.f   plm.f       secanc_2.f  zroot.f
bspevn1.f   dawson.f    gaublk.f    kronrd.f    pold.f      secanc.f
bspevn2.f   delves.f    gaubnd_c.f  lagitc.f    polev2.f    secani.f
bspevn.f    dft.f       gaubnd.f    lagitr.f    polevl.f    secant.f
