
This directory contains Fortran 77 programs using various
subprograms described in Appendix B. All programs use quadruple
precision (REAL*16 / COMPLEX*32) arithmetic. Single and double
precision versions of these programs can be found in f77/xmp4 and
f77/xmp8 respectively. 

All these programs have been tested to some extent, but there may
be some bugs. Users are welcome to use these programs at their own
risk. Any bugs discovered in these routines may be notified to

antia@tifr.res.in

The main purpose of the programs in this directory is to provide
concrete examples of using the subprograms described in Appendix
B. Most of these programs are based on either solved examples or
exercises in the book. Sample output obtained from these programs
is also included in files *.out. These output files may be useful
to check if the program is running correctly (at least giving the
same output!) on your computer. Because of differences in
roundoff errors between different compilers and computers the
output may not exactly match on two different machines. In most
cases the output refers to output on Fortran logical unit 6 which
is normally the terminal. This output has been redirected to a
file which is included in the directory. In a few cases
(anneal.f, bsplin.f, rls.f, smooth.f) the programs directly write
to a file on the disk. Of these bsplin.f and smooth.f do not have
any significant output on the screen and it is not included in
the online material. While for anneal.f and rls.f the screen output is
included in addition to the files directly written. The input file kernel
containing kernels for inverse problem (Example 13.5) as
required by rls.f is kept in the base directory to avoid duplication.


Because of limitations mentioned in f77/sub16/readme all programs
in this directory may not give the full accuracy expected from
quadruple precision arithmetic. Some of these programs may
require very long time to complete execution. 












Apart from 123 Fortran programs and the corresponding output
files this directory contains the following files: 

readme	 	This file

readme.htm	The readme file with html links

xmp.ind	 	Index of subprograms used in different examples

xmp.lst	 	Subject wise list of programs

xmp.sor	 	Alphabetic list of programs

xmplst.htm	Subject wise list of programs with html links

xmplsta.htm	Alphabetic list of programs with html links


The following 123 Fortran programs are included in this directory

adi.f      cauchy.f  filon.f   gevp_c.f    minmax.f   poly2.f   search.f
adm.f      chebap.f  fred3.f   gevp.f      mstep.f    polyc.f   secan_2.f
adpint.f   chebcf.f  fredco.f  golden.f    muler2.f   polyl1.f  secanc.f
anneal.f   chebex.f  fred.f    herevp.f    muller.f   polyr.f   shoot.f
bessel.f   cmat.f    gamma.f   hermit.f    multi.f    quad.f    simplx.f
betap.f    crank.f   gaubnd.f  interp.f    multisp.f  realrt.f  smooth.f
bfgs.f     davidm.f  gaucb1.f  invit.f     newrap.f   realsy.f  sor.f
binom.f    dawson.f  gaucb2.f  lagurw.f    newton.f   recin2.f  splint.f
brentm.f   delves.f  gaucby.f  lapinv.f    nllsq.f    recin3.f  sum_a.f
broydn.f   drvt.f    gauher.f  lax.f       nminf.f    recrt2.f  sum.f
bspfit2.f  erf.f     gaujac.f  linear.f    pade.f     remes.f   unsym.f
bspfit.f   euler.f   gaulag.f  lines.f     pcor.f     rkm_2.f   unsyml.f
bspfitn.f  extp.f    gauleg.f  linfitxy.f  plm.f      rkm.f     volt2.f
bspintn.f  fdm.f     gaulog.f  linrn.f     poisson.f  rls.f     volt.f
bsplin.f   fermi.f   gausq.f   llsq1.f     pold.f     rmk1.f    ylm.f
bspode.f   fft.f     gausrc.f  llsq.f      polfit2.f  rmk.f
bspqd2.f   fftn.f    gauswt.f  matinv.f    polfit.f   root.f
bspqdn.f   fftr.f    genevp.f  median.f    polfitn.f  round.f

The 126 output files from these programs are as follows:

adi.out      chebex.out  gaucb1.out  lapinv.out    pade.out     rls.out
adm.out      cmat.out    gaucb2.out  lax.out       pcor.out     rmk1.out
adpint.out   crank.out   gaucby.out  lcurv.out     plm.out      rmk.out
anneal.out   davidm.out  gauher.out  linear.out    poisson.out  root.out
bessel.out   dawson.out  gaujac.out  lines.out     pold.out     round.out
betap.out    delves.out  gaulag.out  linfitxy.out  polfit2.out  search.out
bfgs.out     drvt.out    gauleg.out  linrn.out     polfitn.out  secan_2.out
binom.out    erf.out     gaulog.out  llsq1.out     polfit.out   secanc.out
brentm.out   euler.out   gausq.out   llsq.out      poly2.out    shoot.out
broydn.out   extp.out    gausrc.out  matinv.out    polyc.out    simplx.out
bspfit2.out  fdm.out     gauswt.out  median.out    polyl1.out   smooth.out
bspfitn.out  fermi.out   genevp.out  minmax.out    polyr.out    sor.out
bspfit.out   fftn.out    gevp_c.out  mstep.out     quad.out     splint.out
bspintn.out  fft.out     gevp.out    muler2.out    realrt.out   sum_a.out
bsplin.out   fftr.out    golden.out  muller.out    realsy.out   sum.out
bspode.out   filon.out   herevp.out  multi.out     recin2.out   titan.out
bspqd2.out   fred3.out   hermit.out  multisp.out   recin3.out   unsyml.out
bspqdn.out   fredco.out  interp.out  newrap.out    recrt2.out   unsym.out
cauchy.out   fred.out    invers.out  newton.out    remes.out    volt2.out
chebap.out   gamma.out   invit.out   nllsq.out     rkm_2.out    volt.out
chebcf.out   gaubnd.out  lagurw.out  nminf.out     rkm.out      ylm.out

The files invers.out and lcurv.out are additional outputs from rls.f,
while titan.out is additional output from anneal.f
