
This directory contains computer programs and related material from the book

Numerical Methods for Scientists and Engineers  (3rd Edition)

H. M. Antia

published by Hindustan Book Agency, New Delhi


The programs include 235 Fortran subprograms which are described
in Appendix B, and 222 C functions described in Appendix C of the
book. These appendices do not appear in the printed form and are
included only in the online material in the form of Portable
Document Format (pdf) and HyperText Markup Language (html) files.
However, the contents of Appendices are listed in the printed
table of contents and the Index. Apart from the subprograms and
their description, the online material also contains 123 Fortran and 118 C
programs illustrating the usage of the subprograms as well as
some sample outputs. 

All these subprograms have been tested to some extent, but there
may be some bugs. Users are welcome to use these subprograms at
their own risk. Any bugs discovered in these routines may be
notified to

antia@tifr.res.in

Each of the Fortran program is provided in 3 versions for use
with single, double and quadruple precision floating point
arithmetic, while C programs are only for the double precision
arithmetic. All the Fortran and C files contain brief description
of arguments in the subprogram. Some more description may be
found in the Appendices, while the book should be consulted for
more details of algorithm used. The programs giving example of
usage also contain some comments, but in most cases the reader
will need to consult the book to find out which problem is
solved. 

The contents of the online material are arranged in following 3 directories

c	C programs with subdirectories

	fun	222 C functions described in Appendix C
	xmp	118 C programs illustrating usage of these functions
		and sample outputs


doc	PDF and HTML files of Appendices B and C and some other lists

f77	Fortran 77 programs with subdirectories

	sub4	Single precision version of 235 Fortran subprograms
		described in Appendix B
	sub8	Double precision version of these subprograms
	sub16	Quadruple precision version of these subprograms

	xmp4	Single precision version of 223 Fortran programs illustrating
		usage of these subprograms along with sample outputs
	xmp8	Double precision version these programs
	xmp16	Quadruple precision version these programs


One of the example programs (invers) requires a large data file. To save
space only 1 copy of this file is kept in the main directory.

All the subdirectories contain a readme file which should be read
before using the contents. Apart from the subdirectories described
above the main directory contains the following files:

lslR		A complete recursive directory of the online material in Unix
		format listing all files
kernel		The data file for example invers
readme		This file
readme.htm	Readme file with links to other directories
