
This directory contains C programs using various functions
described in Appendix C. All programs use double precision (type
double) floating point arithmetic. 

All these programs have been tested to some extent, but there may
be some bugs. Users are welcome to use these programs at their own
risk. Any bugs discovered in these routines may be notified to

antia@tifr.res.in

For clarity most of the documents specify the name of functions 
using upper case letters, but in actual program all function
names use only lower case letters.

The main purpose of the programs in this directory is to provide
concrete examples of using the functions described in Appendix C.
Most of these programs are based on either solved examples or
exercises in the book. Sample output obtained from these programs
is also included in files *.out. These output files may be useful
to check if the program is running correctly (at least giving the
same output!) on your computer. Because of differences in
roundoff errors between different compilers and computers the
output may not exactly match on two different machines. In most
cases the output refers to output on 
the terminal. This output has been redirected to a
file which is included in the directory. In a few cases
(anneal.c, bsplin.c, rls.c, smooth.c) the programs directly write to a file
on the disk. Of these bsplin.c and smooth.c do not have any significant
output on the screen and it is not included in the online material. While for
anneal.c and rls.f the screen output is included in addition to
the files directly written. 


Most of the programs are straight translation from the
corresponding Fortran programs, but in some cases a slightly
different problem is solved and hence the corresponding outputs
will be different. The differences may be seen in

brentm.c, fredco.c, lines.c, muler2.c, recrt2.c, unsym.c, unsyml.c.
 
In the last two since only real arithmetic is used the
eigenvectors corresponding to complex eigenvalues are not
determined correctly in the C program. The Fortran program
nllsq.f has been split into two independent C programs nllsq.c
and nllsq_f.c.  Apart from this 6 Fortran programs,

cmat.f, delves.f, genevp.f, gevp_c.f, polyc.f, secanc.f

have not been translated to C. 





Apart from 118 C programs and the corresponding output files this
directory contains the following files:


readme	 	This file

readme.htm	html version of readme

xmp.ind	 	Index of subprograms used in different examples

xmp.lst	 	Subject wise list of programs

xmp.sor	 	Alphabetic list of programs

xmplst.htm	html version of subject wise list of programs

xmplsta.htm	html version of alphabetic list of programs


The following 118 C programs are included in this directory

adi.c      bspqdn.c  filon.c   gevp.c      minmax.c   polfit.c   root.c
adm.c      cauchy.c  fred3.c   golden.c    mstep.c    polfitn.c  round.c
adpint.c   chebap.c  fred.c    herevp.c    muler2.c   poly2.c    search.c
anneal.c   chebcf.c  fredco.c  hermit.c    muller.c   polyl1.c   secan_2.c
bessel.c   chebex.c  gamma.c   interp.c    multi.c    polyr.c    shoot.c
betap.c    crank.c   gaubnd.c  invit.c     multisp.c  quad.c     simplx.c
bfgs.c     davidm.c  gaucb1.c  lagurw.c    newrap.c   realrt.c   smooth.c
binom.c    dawson.c  gaucb2.c  lapinv.c    newton.c   realsy.c   sor.c
brentm.c   drvt.c    gaucby.c  lax.c       nllsq.c    recin2.c   splint.c
broydn.c   erf.c     gauher.c  linear.c    nllsq_f.c  recin3.c   sum_a.c
bspfit2.c  euler.c   gaujac.c  lines.c     nminf.c    recrt2.c   sum.c
bspfit.c   extp.c    gaulag.c  linfitxy.c  pade.c     remes.c    unsym.c
bspfitn.c  fdm.c     gauleg.c  linrn.c     pcor.c     rkm_2.c    unsyml.c
bspintn.c  fermi.c   gaulog.c  llsq1.c     plm.c      rkm.c      volt2.c
bsplin.c   fft.c     gausq.c   llsq.c      poisson.c  rls.c      volt.c
bspode.c   fftn.c    gausrc.c  matinv.c    pold.c     rmk1.c     ylm.c
bspqd2.c   fftr.c    gauswt.c  median.c    polfit2.c  rmk.c



The 112 output files from these programs are as follows:

adi.out      adm.out      adpint.out   anneal.out   bessel.out   bfgs.out
brentm.out   broydn.out   bspfit.out   bspfit2.out  bspfitn.out  bspintn.out
bspode.out   bspqd2.out   bspqdn.out   cauchy.out   chebap.out   chebcf.out
chebex.out   crank.out    davidm.out   dawson.out   drvt.out     erf.out
euler.out    extp.out     fdm.out      fermi.out    fft.out      fftn.out
fftr.out     filon.out    fred.out     fred3.out    fredco.out   gamma.out
gaubnd.out   gaucb1.out   gaucb2.out   gaucby.out   gauher.out   gaujac.out
gaulag.out   gauleg.out   gaulog.out   gausq.out    gausrc.out   gauswt.out
gevp.out     golden.out   herevp.out   hermit.out   interp.out   invers.out
invit.out    lagurw.out   lapinv.out   lax.out      linear.out   lines.out
linrn.out    llsq.out     llsq1.out    matinv.out   minmax.out   mstep.out
muler2.out   muller.out   multi.out    multisp.out  newrap.out   newton.out
nllsq.out    nllsq_f.out  nminf.out    pade.out     plm.out      pold.out
polfit.out   polfit2.out  polfitn.out  poly2.out    polyl1.out   polyr.out
quad.out     realrt.out   realsy.out   recin2.out   recin3.out   recrt2.out
remes.out    rkm.out      rkm_2.out    rls.out      rmk.out      rmk1.out
round.out    search.out   secan_2.out  shoot.out    simplx.out   smooth.out
sor.out      splint.out   sum.out      sum_a.out    titan.out    unsym.out
unsyml.out   volt.out     volt2.out    ylm.out

The file invers.out is additional output from rls.f, while
titan.out is additional output from anneal.f

